  1.  patient information
     *   patient life expectancy: please enter an integer value between one and 15. The calculator will run a Monte Carlo simulation
     *   suppress 20% one-year mortality. The calculator assumes that all patients have a 20% risk of dying at one year, and therefore the calculated life expectancy used by the simulator can be a bit smaller than the value entered under ‘life expectancy’. If you wish to run the simulator without this 20% one-year mortality risk, please click ‘OFF’
     *   utility discounting. Some patients may substantially favor immediate gains more than long-term gains. This is their prerogative. Such patients are said to engage in ‘hyperbolic discounting’. If you believe that your patient is a so-called hyperbolic discounter, click the leftmost box. This will decrement the value of gains in all years beyond the first by multiplying them by 1/n. Thus, for example, the values in year two discounted by 50%, those of year three by 66%, and so on. The ‘partial hyperbolic’ box will adjust values halfway between no discounting at all and true hyperbolic discounting.
     *   Functional status. The functional status box allows you to adjust the immediate relative value of THA to that of HA, based on the patient’s anticipated functional status. For a standard patient the utilities are deemed equal; a low demand patient will find less benefit from a THA; the higher demand patients will find greater value from a THA. By clicking the ‘advanced’ button the utility values for THA and hemi will be seen explicitly and can be adjusted.
     *   THA Success utility. Enter an integer of any size, or use the slider to select the value between between zero and 200. This defaults to 100. Note that the calculator is only assessing relative utility so the abstract meaning of these utility points does not have to be known. Indeed, the utility of success can be chosen arbitrarily. We suggest that the utility of THA success be left at 100, with all others adjusted accordingly from that point
     *   hemi success utility. Enter an integer of any size, or use the slider to select the value between between zero and 200. The default is that hemi is equal to THA
     *   dislocation utility penalty. Enter an integer of any size, or use the slider to select value between zero and 200. This value represents the utility points lost if and when dislocation takes place

     *   Failure utility penalty. Enter an integer of any size, or use the slider to select value between zero and 200. This value represents the utility points lost if and when prosthetic failure takes place.



  1.  device information
     *   dislocation rate of THA above hemi dislocation rate. Enter a value representing the rate of dislocation for THA above the rate of dislocation for hemi. Because the calculator is only assessing relative utility, as a simplifying assumption hemi was assumed to have a dislocation rate of zero, and the user simply has to enter the additional dislocation- risk rate for THA.
     *   year at which the dislocation rate of THA returns to baseline. There are some who maintain that the additional risk of dislocating a THA is present only in the first few years after implantation; the on this point the additional risk of dislocation is trivial. This box/slider allows you to indicate the year at which the additional dislocation rate penalty should no longer be applied. The default value is 15 years, the maximal duration of the Monte Carlo simulator
     *   THA longevity in years. Enter the number of years that a THA is expected to ‘last’. The definition of this time period Is that all of the utility points assigned to a successful THA in year one will be decremented down to zero by this given year; also at the end of this time period, X% of all devices will have failed, with X percent defined below as the complement of the value entered for ‘device survival at longevity’.
     *   Hemi longevity in years. Enter the number of years that a hemi is expected to ‘last’. The definition of this time period Is that all of the utility points assigned to a successful hemi in year one will be decremented down to zero by this given year; also at the end of this time period, X% of all devices will have failed, with X percent defined below as the complement of the value entered for ‘device survival at longevity’.
     *   ‘device survival at longevity’. Enter a percentage value here representing the fraction of prostheses that can be expected to have eluded failure by the longevity expiration date.
  2.  calculator features
     *   minimal clinically important difference. Please enter a percentage ranging from 0 to 20% representing the utility point percentage difference required to deem the options distinct. [This is similar to the effect size used in power calculations.] Specifically, only if this MC ID threshold is crossed will the two options be deemed different
     *   simulator iterations. Please enter an integer from 100 to 1000, indicating the number of cycles in the Monte Carlo simulator. A smaller value will be calculated faster, of course; a larger value will be a bit more precise



